The Chairman of the Victims Support Fund, Gen TY Danjuma RTD
has inaugurated the VSF Task Force on COVID-19, mandated to provide palliative
measures to Internally Displaced Persons and other vulnerable groups around the
country, as part of its contribution to national efforts to fight COVID-19. 

According to a statement  signed by Alkasim
Abdulkadir, Spokesman, Victims Support Fund, the Taskforce will provide 1
Billion Naira worth of medical supplies, food, water and non-food items for
IDPs and others who will face special challenges at this difficult time. The
task force shall also work closely with all Federal and State government organs
and agencies tasked with the responsibility for providing direction and
leadership in the fight against COVID-19, including the Presidential Task Force
on Covid-19 and all relevant MDAs. The Task Force will also extend support to
other frontline organizations working to curtail the spread of the novel Corona
Virus. 
The Committee has the following as members.

Mrs Toyosi-Akerele Ogunsuji: Chairperson; Dr Bulama Mali Gubio: Member; Amb
John Gana:  Member
Mr Sunday Oibe:   Member ;Mr Alkasim Abdulkadir: Member;  and Prof. Sunday Ochoche:     
  Member 

Gen. Danjuma said that the intervention had become necessary in view of the
global devastation of the Corona Virus pandemic and the huge human challenges
it poses for the country. He added that, as a country, we must all do what we
can to ensure that the spread is curtailed. He also urged the committee to
embark on massive sensitization campaigns amongst vulnerable groups to inform
and educate them on the best hygiene and sanitation practices in order to
prevent the further spread of the disease.