 By Haruna Salami

The Senator representing Yobe East and former Governor of Yobe state, Ibrahim
Gaidam has said he sponsored a bill to create an agency for repentant Boko
Haram because “the concept of deradicalization, rehabilitation and
reintegration of repentant insurgents are global best practice”.

Gaidam pointed out that countries including Britain, Saudi Arabia, Yemen,
Egypt, Somalia, Pakistan, Syria and Iraq have formulated various models of
deradicalization and rehabilitation programmes to combact the menace of
radicalization with success.

It would be recalled that Gaidam at the plenary of the Nigerian Senate on
Thursday last week sponsored  “A bill for an Act to establish
National Agency for the Education, Deradicalization, Rehabilitation and
Reintegration of Repentant Insurgents which passed first reading. This was
roundly criticised by many Nigerians as reward for  terrorism.

He explained that Boko Haram is becoming increasingly aggressive since it’s
inception in 2009, marked by extreme brutality and explicit targeting of
civilians, resulting in continued infliction of massive casualty on citizens,
particularly in North east Nigeria.

“It has become necessary for us to go to the drawing board and adopt an
alternative approach, in addition to the military option,which has so far
performed significantly well.

“There is no doubt that many members of the insurgents group have defected
and many more are willing to repent, given a window of opportunity and this is
confirmed by many organizations, including NGOs that have unalloyed access to
Boko Haram.


In addition, he said “there is a the need for a more strategic and
comprehensive approach to entice those members of the group who, after
realizing the futility of the course they are pursuing, have eventually decided
to voluntarily lay down their arms and chose the path of peace, hence the need
for the establishment of the agency to accommodate the defectors”.